---
Id: 1023
Title: AWS Systems Manager
Author: Steve
Tags: AWS Monitoring Management
Topic: Security in AWS
Abstract: Managing and monitoring your resources on AWS is a crucial part of ensuring that your applications perform as expected. ou want to be able to monitor how your applications are being consumed, identify any technical issues that ...
HeaderImage: /BL-1022/CloudWatch.png
isPublished: true
---

## Introduction

As part of your day-to-day administrative task in maintaining your workloads, you want to be able to effectively manage your resources, such as patching, performing updates, and automating tasks.

## What is AWS Systems Manager?

AWS Systems Manager is a service that enables you to centrally manage yout AWS resources. You have the visibility of your resources across AWS services and you can perform configuration management, and automate day-to-day operational tasks.

The service utilizes the concept of documents(JSON and YAML), which define the actions that systems Manager performs on your managed resources such as operational management, change management, application management, and node management.

The documents can be pre-deined(e.g the AWS-CreateRdsSnapshot document that can be used to create RDS snapshot for an RDS instance.) or customized by the user.

## What can you do with AWS Systems Manager?

### 1. Run Command
With the run command, you are able to remotely run linux shell scripts and windows powershell commands on your EC2 instances. This can be used to perform coonfiguration changes, and install and update applications

### 2. State Manager
With state manager, you are able to configure a predefined state that can be used to maintain consistency in your configurations across a fleet of instances, such as firewall configurations, and antivirus configurations.

### 3. Inventory
The inventory capability of AWS systems manager provide information on applications, files, components, and patches across your managed instances.

### 4. Maintenance Window
This service enables you to schedule times when administrative tasks such as patch installations and updates can be performed so as not to disrupt normal business hours.

### 5. Patch Manager
This enables you to automate patching of your EC2 instances.

### 6. Automation
This enables you to automate various maintenance tasks, such as updating AMIs(Amazon Machine Images), creating snapshots of EBS (Elastic Block Store) volumes, resetting passwords, and launching or terminating EC2 instances.

### 7. Distributor
With Distributor, you can create and deploy application packages to your managed instances.You can create software packages as exrcutables that operating systems recognize, enabling easy deployments. 

You can as well reinstall new package versions and perform in-place updates

### 8. Session Manager
With Session Manager, you are able to remotely  access your EC2 instances using a browser-based shell or the CLI. It provides secure and auditable instance management without the need to open inbond ports, maintain bastion hosts, or manager SSH keys.

### 9. Incident Manager
This capability enables you to manage and resolve incident affecting AWS-hosted applications. It offers a management console to track all your incidents and notify responders of impact, identify data that can help with troubleshooting, and help you get services back up and running

### 10. Parameter Store
This enables you store configuration data and secret information securely. These can be information such as passwords and database strings as parameter values. The values can be stored encrypted and your application can be configured to securely retrieve these values as they are needed from the Parameter Store.

---

## Patch Management

Among the many things you can do with AWS Systems Manager, I would like to pick on Patch Management. Let us look at how you can automate patches in Linux and Windows instances with a practical Scenario.

In organizations with hundreds and often thousands of workstations, it can be logistically challenging to keep all the operating system (OS) and application software up to date. In most cases, OS updates on workstations can be automatically applied via the network. However, administrators must have a clear security policy and baseline plan to ensure that all workstations are running a certain minimum version of software.

